📕✨：add initial accessions: `mount` & `umount` commands (`umount` later) (#22)
OpenINF/docker-fisher: doc/glossary.md

<br />

<dl>
<section id="mount"><dt>

#### <dfn><code>mount</code></dfn>&nbsp;<a role="button" aria-expanded="false" tabindex="0" href="#mount" id="mount-ref">⚓</a>

</dt>
<div align="right"><note place="source"><ref target="chap11">
[⑪📑][]
</ref></note></div>
<dd>

> <dd>
> 
> To temporarily mount a filesystem to the Linux virtual directory, use the
> `mount` command. The basic format for the `mount` command is
> 
> ```sh
> mount -t fstype device mountpoint
> ```
> 
> Use the `-t` command-line option to specify the filesystem type of the device:
> 
> ```console
> $ sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb1 /media/usb1
> $
> ```

Author: ```suggestion

To temporarily mount a filesystem to the Linux virtual directory, use the
`mount` command. The basic format for the `mount` command is:

```sh
$ mount -t fstype device mountpoint
```

Use the `-t` command-line option to specify the filesystem type of the device:

```console
$ sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb1 /media/usb1
```

```

-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
...
/dev/sdb1 on /media/usb1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb2 on /media/usb2 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
rich@rich-TestBox2:~$
```

</div><br /><figcaption>

***Listing 11.1: Output from the [`mount`][] command.***

</figcaption>
</figure><br /><br />
</div>

To save space, the output from the [`mount`][] command was trimmed down to _only_ show
the physical devices on the system. The main hard drive device (`/dev/sda`)
contains two partitions, and the USB memory stick device (`/dev/sdb`) also
contains two partitions.

<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/light-theme/info.svg">
  <img alt="Note" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/dark-theme/info.svg">
</picture><br />
<strong>Note</strong>

The [`mount`][] command uses the `-o` option to specify additional features of the
filesystem, such as mounting it in read-only mode, user permissions assigned to
the mount point, and how data is stored on the device. These options are shown

> in the output of the [`mount`][] command. Usually, you can omit the `-o` option to

Author: ```suggestion
in the output of the [`mount`][] command. Usually, one can omit the `-o` option to
```

use the system defaults for the new mount point.

The downside to the [`mount`][] command is that it only temporarily mounts the
device in the virtual directory. When you reboot the system, you have to
manually mount the devices again. This is usually fine for removable devices,
such as USB memory sticks, but for more permanent devices it would be nice if
Linux could mount them for us automatically. Fortunately for us, Linux can do
just that.

To remove a mounted drive from the virtual directory, use the [`umount`][] command
(note the missing _n_). You can remove the mounted drive by specifying either

> the device file name or the mount point directory.
> </details>

Author: ```suggestion
the device file name or the mount point directory.

</details>
```

<br />

<dl>
<section id="mount"><dt>

#### <dfn><code>mount</code></dfn>&nbsp;<a role="button" aria-expanded="false" tabindex="0" href="#mount" id="mount-ref">⚓</a>

</dt>
<div align="right"><note place="source"><ref target="chap11">

[⑪📑][]

</ref></note></div>
<dd>

The [`mount`][] command allows users to **_mount_**, i.e., attach additional
child filesystems to a particular mount point on the currently accessible
filesystem.

<details>
<summary>Learn more&hellip;</summary>

To temporarily mount a filesystem to the Linux virtual directory, use the
[`mount`][] command; the basic format for the [`mount`][] command is:

```console
$ mount -t fstype device mountpoint
```

Use the `-t` command-line option to specify the filesystem type of the device:

```console
$ sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb1 /media/usb1
```

If one specifies the [`mount`][] command with no parameters, it displays all
devices currently mounted on the Linux system. Be prepared for a long output
though, as most Linux distributions mount many virtual devices in the virtual
directory to provide information about system resources. [Listing 11.1][] shows a
partial output from a [`mount`][] command.

> 
> 
> <div align="center"><br /><br />

Author: ```suggestion
<div align="center"><br /><br />
```

<figure id="listing_11-1"><div align="left">

```console
$ mount
...
/dev/sda2 on / type ext4 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,data=ordered)
/dev/sda1 on /boot/efi type vfat
 (rw,relatime,fmask=0077,dmask=0077,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859
-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
...
/dev/sdb1 on /media/usb1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb2 on /media/usb2 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
rich@rich-TestBox2:~$
```

</div><br /><figcaption>

***Listing 11.1 | Output from the [`mount`][] command.***

</figcaption>
</figure><br /><br />
</div>

> 
> 
> To save space, the output from the [`mount`][] command was trimmed down to _only_ show

Author: ```suggestion

To save space, the output from the [`mount`][] command was trimmed down to _only_ show
```

the physical devices on the system. The main hard drive device (`/dev/sda`)
contains two partitions, and the USB memory stick device (`/dev/sdb`) also
contains two partitions.

<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/light-theme/info.svg">
  <img alt="Note" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/dark-theme/info.svg">
</picture><br />
<strong>Note</strong>

The [`mount`][] command uses the `-o` option to specify additional features of the
filesystem, such as mounting it in read-only mode, user permissions assigned to
the mount point, and how data is stored on the device. These options are shown

> in the output of the [`mount`][] command. Usually, one can omit the `-o` option to

Author: ```suggestion
in the output of the [`mount`][] command. Usually, one may omit the `-o` option to
```

> use the system defaults for the new mount point.

Author: ```suggestion
use the system defaults for the new mountpoint.
```

> The downside to the [`mount`][] command is that it only temporarily mounts the

Author: ```suggestion
The downside to the [`mount`][] command is that it only **temporarily** mounts the
```

> device in the virtual directory. When you reboot the system, you have to

Author: ```suggestion
device in the virtual directory. When you reboot the system, ya still gotta
```

manually mount the devices again. This is usually fine for removable devices,

> such as USB memory sticks, but for more permanent devices it would be nice if

Author: ```suggestion
such as USB memory sticks, but for more permanent devices, it would be nice if
```

> Linux could mount them for us automatically. Fortunately for us, Linux can do

Author: ```suggestion
Linux could mount them for us automatically &mdash; fortunately for us &mdash; Linux can do
```

just that.

To remove a mounted drive from the virtual directory, use the [`umount`][] command

> (note the missing _n_). You can remove the mounted drive by specifying either

Author: ```suggestion
(note the missing _n_). One may remove the mounted drive by specifying either
```

> the device filename or the mountpoint directory.

Author: ```suggestion
i) the device filename or ii) the mountpoint directory.
```

<br />

<dl>

> <dt>
> 
> [`mount`][]
> 
> </dt><br />

Author: ```suggestion
<section id="mount"><dt>

#### <dfn><code>mount</code></dfn>&nbsp;<a role="button" aria-expanded="false" tabindex="0" href="#mount" id="mount-ref">⚓</a>

</dt>
<div align="right"><note place="source"><ref target="chap11">
[⑪📑][]
</ref></note></div>
<dd>
```

<br />

<dl>
<section id="mount"><dt>

#### <dfn><code>mount</code></dfn>&nbsp;<a role="button" aria-expanded="false" tabindex="0" href="#mount" id="mount-ref">⚓</a>

</dt>

> <div align="right"><note place="source"><ref target="chap11">
> [⑪📑][]
> </ref></note></div>

Author: ```suggestion
<div align="right"><note place="source"><ref target="chap11">

[⑪📑][]

</ref></note></div>
```

</dt>
<div align="right"><note place="source"><ref target="chap11">

[⑪📑][]

</ref></note></div>
<dd>

To temporarily mount a filesystem to the Linux virtual directory, use the
`mount` command. The basic format for the `mount` command is:

```console
$ mount -t fstype device mountpoint
```

Use the `-t` command-line option to specify the filesystem type of the device:

```console
$ sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb1 /media/usb1
```

If you specify the `mount` command with no parameters, it displays all of the
devices currently mounted on the Linux system. Be prepared for a long output
though, as most Linux distributions mount many virtual devices in the virtual
directory to provide information about system resources. Listing 11.1 shows a
partial output from a `mount` command.

```console
$ mount
...
/dev/sda2 on / type ext4 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,data=ordered)
/dev/sda1 on /boot/efi type vfat
 (rw,relatime,fmask=0077,dmask=0077,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859
-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
...
/dev/sdb1 on /media/usb1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb2 on /media/usb2 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
rich@rich-TestBox2:~$
```

> **Listing 11.1: Output from the `mount` command**

Author: ~~~suggestion

<div align="center"><br /><br />
<figure>

```console
$ mount
...
/dev/sda2 on / type ext4 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,data=ordered)
/dev/sda1 on /boot/efi type vfat
 (rw,relatime,fmask=0077,dmask=0077,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859
-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
...
/dev/sdb1 on /media/usb1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb2 on /media/usb2 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
rich@rich-TestBox2:~$
```
<br />
<figcaption>

**Listing 11.1: Output from the `mount` command**

</figcaption>
</figure>
</div><br /><br />

~~~

<br />

<dl>
<section id="mount"><dt>

#### <dfn><code>mount</code></dfn>&nbsp;<a role="button" aria-expanded="false" tabindex="0" href="#mount" id="mount-ref">⚓</a>

</dt>
<div align="right"><note place="source"><ref target="chap11">

[⑪📑][]

> </ref></note></div>
> <dd>

Author: ```suggestion
</ref></note></div>
<dd>

The [`mount`][] command allows users to **_mount_**, i.e., attach additional
child filesystems to a particular mount point on the currently accessible
filesystem.

<details>
<summary>Learn more&hellip;</summary>

<dd>
```

To temporarily mount a filesystem to the Linux virtual directory, use the

> `mount` command. The basic format for the `mount` command is:

Author: ```suggestion
[`mount`][] command. The basic format for the [`mount`][] command is:
```

```console
$ mount -t fstype device mountpoint
```

Use the `-t` command-line option to specify the filesystem type of the device:

```console
$ sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb1 /media/usb1
```

> If you specify the `mount` command with no parameters, it displays all of the

Author: ```suggestion
If you specify the [`mount`][] command with no parameters, it displays all of the
```

> If you specify the [`mount`][] command with no parameters, it displays all of the

Author: ```suggestion
If one specifies the [`mount`][] command with no parameters, it displays all of the
```

devices currently mounted on the Linux system. Be prepared for a long output
though, as most Linux distributions mount many virtual devices in the virtual

> directory to provide information about system resources. Listing 11.1 shows a

Author: ```suggestion
directory to provide information about system resources. [Listing 11.1](./glossary.md#listing_1-1) shows a
```

> partial output from a `mount` command.

Author: ```suggestion
partial output from a [`mount`][] command.
```

<div align="center"><br /><br />

> <figure>

Author: ```suggestion
<figure align="left">
```

> <figure align="left">

Author: ```suggestion
<figure><div align="left">
```

```console
$ mount
...
/dev/sda2 on / type ext4 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,data=ordered)
/dev/sda1 on /boot/efi type vfat
 (rw,relatime,fmask=0077,dmask=0077,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859
-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
...
/dev/sdb1 on /media/usb1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb2 on /media/usb2 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
rich@rich-TestBox2:~$
```

> <br /><figcaption>

Author: ```suggestion
</div><br /><figcaption>
```

> **Listing 11.1: Output from the `mount` command.**

Author: ```suggestion
**Listing 11.1: _Output from the [`mount`][] command._**
```

> ***Listing 11.1: Output from the [`mount`][] command.***

Author: ```suggestion
***Listing 11.1 | Output from the [`mount`][] command.***
```

</figcaption>

> </figure><br /><br />

Author: ```suggestion
</div></figure><br /><br />
```

</div>

> To save space, we trimmed down the output from the `mount` command to show only

Author: ```suggestion
To save space, we trimmed down the output from the [`mount`][] command to show only
```

> To save space, we trimmed down the output from the [`mount`][] command to show only

Author: ```suggestion
To save space, the output from the [`mount`][] command we trimmed down to show only
```

the physical devices on the system. The main hard drive device (`/dev/sda`)
contains two partitions, and the USB memory stick device (`/dev/sdb`) also
contains two partitions.

> <span class="fact_icon_v2 notes _v2"></span><span class="ebook_item_text"
> update="true">Note</span>

Author: ```suggestion
<span class="fact_icon_v2 notes _v2"></span><span class="ebook_item_text"
update="true">NOTE</span>
```

we should be using our own &mdash; https://github.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown#badges

> <span class="fact_icon_v2 notes _v2"></span><span class="ebook_item_text"
> update="true">Note</span>

Author: ```suggestion
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/light-theme/info.svg">
  <img alt="Note" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/dark-theme/info.svg">
</picture><br />
<span class="ebook_item_text"
update="true">Note</span>
```

The `mount` command uses the `-o` option to specify additional features of the
filesystem, such as mounting it in read-only mode, user permissions assigned to
the mount point, and how data is stored on the device. These options are shown

> in the output of the `mount` command. Usually, you can omit the `-o` option to

Author: ```suggestion
in the output of the [`mount`][] command. Usually, you can omit the `-o` option to
```

use the system defaults for the new mount point.

> The downside to the `mount` command is that it only temporarily mounts the

Author: ```suggestion
The downside to the [`mount`][] command is that it only temporarily mounts the
```

device in the virtual directory. When you reboot the system, you have to
manually mount the devices again. This is usually fine for removable devices,
such as USB memory sticks, but for more permanent devices it would be nice if
Linux could mount them for us automatically. Fortunately for us, Linux can do
just that.

> To remove a mounted drive from the virtual directory, use the `umount` command

Author: ```suggestion
To remove a mounted drive from the virtual directory, use the [`umount`][] command
```

partial output from a [`mount`][] command.

<div align="center"><br /><br />
<figure><div align="left">

```console
$ mount
...
/dev/sda2 on / type ext4 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,data=ordered)
/dev/sda1 on /boot/efi type vfat
 (rw,relatime,fmask=0077,dmask=0077,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859
-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
...
/dev/sdb1 on /media/usb1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb2 on /media/usb2 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
rich@rich-TestBox2:~$
```

</div><br /><figcaption>

***Listing 11.1: Output from the [`mount`][] command.***

</figcaption>
</figure><br /><br />
</div>

To save space, we trimmed down the output from the [`mount`][] command to show only
the physical devices on the system. The main hard drive device (`/dev/sda`)
contains two partitions, and the USB memory stick device (`/dev/sdb`) also
contains two partitions.

<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/light-theme/info.svg">
  <img alt="Note" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenINF/GitHub-Markdown/HEAD/blockquotes/badge/dark-theme/info.svg">
</picture><br />

> <span>Note</span>

Author: ```suggestion
<strong>Note</strong>
```

The [`mount`][] command uses the `-o` option to specify additional features of the
filesystem, such as mounting it in read-only mode, user permissions assigned to
the mount point, and how data is stored on the device. These options are shown
in the output of the [`mount`][] command. Usually, you can omit the `-o` option to
use the system defaults for the new mount point.

The downside to the [`mount`][] command is that it only temporarily mounts the
device in the virtual directory. When you reboot the system, you have to
manually mount the devices again. This is usually fine for removable devices,
such as USB memory sticks, but for more permanent devices it would be nice if
Linux could mount them for us automatically. Fortunately for us, Linux can do
just that.

To remove a mounted drive from the virtual directory, use the [`umount`][] command
(note the missing _n_). You can remove the mounted drive by specifying either
the device file name or the mount point directory.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
</details>
```

<!-- Glossary Entries -->

[`/etc/mtab`]: ./glossary.md#etc-mtab
[`/etc/rsyslog.conf`]: ./glossary.md#etc-rsyslog-conf
[`chmod`]: ./glossary.md#chmod
[`doas`]: ./glossary.md#doas
[`fstab`]: ./glossary.md#etc-fstab
[`getfacl`]: ./glossary.md#getfacl
[`klogd`]: ./glossary.md#klogd
[`mount`]: ./glossary.md#mount
[`mtab`]: ./glossary.md#mtab
[`rsyslog`]: ./glossary.md#rsyslog
[`rsyslogd`]: ./glossary.md#rsyslogd
[`setfacl`]: ./glossary.md#setfacl
[`su`]: ./glossary.md#su
[`sudo`]: ./glossary.md#sudo
[`sudoedit`]: ./glossary.md#sudoedit
[`sysklogd`]: ./glossary.md#sysklogd
[`syslog`]: ./glossary.md#syslog
[`syslogd-ng`]: ./glossary.md#syslogd-ng

> [`syslogd`]: ./glossary.md#syslogd

Author: ```suggestion
[`syslogd`]: ./glossary.md#syslogd
[`umount`]: ./glossary.md#umount
```

<!-- Glossary Entries -->

[`/etc/mtab`]: ./glossary.md#etc-mtab
[`/etc/rsyslog.conf`]: ./glossary.md#etc-rsyslog-conf
[`chmod`]: ./glossary.md#chmod
[`doas`]: ./glossary.md#doas
[`fstab`]: ./glossary.md#etc-fstab
[`getfacl`]: ./glossary.md#getfacl
[`klogd`]: ./glossary.md#klogd
[`mount`]: ./glossary.md#mount
[`mtab`]: ./glossary.md#mtab
[`rsyslog`]: ./glossary.md#rsyslog
[`rsyslogd`]: ./glossary.md#rsyslogd
[`setfacl`]: ./glossary.md#setfacl
[`su`]: ./glossary.md#su
[`sudo`]: ./glossary.md#sudo
[`sudoedit`]: ./glossary.md#sudoedit
[`sysklogd`]: ./glossary.md#sysklogd
[`syslog`]: ./glossary.md#syslog
[`syslogd-ng`]: ./glossary.md#syslogd-ng
[`syslogd`]: ./glossary.md#syslogd
[`umount`]: ./glossary.md#umount
[access control list (ACL)]: ./glossary.md#acl

> [AppArmor]: ./glossary.md#apparmor

Author: ```suggestion
[AppArmor]: ./glossary.md#apparmor
[Listing 1.1]: ./glossary.md#listing_1-1
```
